Pushing items between branches. (#1409)
avohq/docs: pages/data-design/branches/pulling-pushing-items-between-branches.mdx

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';

# Pulling and Pushing Items Between Branches

You can add an item from one branch to another by pulling or pushing them. When that is done, it's the same item on both branches

> where the ID of the item remains the same. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where the ID of the item remains the same, meaning that this will not result in direct merge conflicts. 
```

- [**Pushing an item**](#pushing-items-to-another-branch-alpha): Adding an item from a branch that a user is currently on, to another branch. 
- [**Pulling an item**](#pulling-items-from-another-branch-coming-in-march-2025): Adding an item to a branch that the user is currently on, from another branch.

<Callout type="info">
    Pushing is currently out in alpha and pulling will be available in March 2025. [Contact us](mailto:beta@avo.app)
 to get access.
</Callout>

## Pushing items to another branch (alpha)

Pushing events, properties and property bundles from the branch that a user is currently on, to another branch is possible from the Tracking plan changes view. 
To access the tracking plan changes view, first you have to be on a branch and then you can click "View Changes" under the branch name.

![Navigating to tracking plan changes](/images/pulling-pushing-items/navigating-to-tracking-plan-changes.png)

> There is an button in the top right corner of every tracking plan change that can be pushed to another branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a button in the top right corner of every tracking plan change that can be pushed to another branch.
```

Reviewer: Wait, what does this sentence mean? 😂

Reviewer: Unless we strictly want to push the button to another branch I suggest:
```
There is a button in the top right corner of events, properties and property bundles in the tracking plan changes which can be clicked to push the item to another branch.
```

![Pressing push button](/images/pulling-pushing-items/press-push-button.png)

> When that button is pushed, you will get a modal that prompts you to pick a branch to push the changes to and review your selection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When that button is clicked, you will get a modal that prompts you to pick a branch to push the changes to and review your selection.
```

You have to first pick a branch so that Avo can accurately display how the changes will be applied, as it might differ per branch if the item already exists on the destination branch.

<center><img
  src="/docs/images/pulling-pushing-items/empty-push-modal.png"
  width="60%"
  alt="Empty review modal"
/></center>

When the destination branch is selected, the actual diff for the destination branch is shown. The items shown can be expanded to show the details of what will be added to the destination branch.

> If the item you selected to push is an event or a property bundle, any related property changes are displayed below. See the [property changes related to event](#property-changes-related-to-event) section for details.

Reviewer: I think I would put emphasis here on that Avo smartly decides _only_ to take the needed changes, i.e. the smallest set possible.

> Once you have reviewed your selection, you can press the Push to branch button and the changes will be applied to the destination branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have reviewed your selection, you can click the Push to branch button and the changes will be applied to the destination branch.
```

<center><img
  src="/docs/images/pulling-pushing-items/collapsed-diff-modal.png"
  width="60%"
  alt="Empty review modal"
/></center>

Then you can navigate to your destination branch and use the item you pushed there.

![Empty review modal](/images/pulling-pushing-items/destination-branch.png)

## Pulling items from another branch (coming in March 2025)

Soon it will be possible to search and get results from other branches. Those item can be pulled to the branch the user is on, and can be used on that branch.

## Merging branches where items have been pushed or pulled

When either the source or destination branch where items have been pushed or pulled are merged to main, you will be prompted to pull main on the branch where the items still remain.

> As the ID of the items are the same, the items exist on main and there is no need to keep them specifically on the other branch. 

Reviewer: And something like "...however changes to these items between the branches will reconcile and the remaining diff will appear instead of the item"

## Property changes related to event

When an event or property bundle is selected to push to another branch, the review modal will show a list of properties related to the event or property bundle.
By default, all related properties and their changes are kept on the event or property bundle.

For events, it's possible to toggle whether the related properties and their changes are pushed too. The related property changes are the following:
- Any **new properties** that were added to the selected item and **do not exist** on the destination branch

>     - When toggled off on events, the property will be excluded on the destination branch

Reviewer: Not entirely true, the property will be on the event but it won't exist on the other branch 🤷‍♂️

Author: Ok so the relationship is kept behind the scenes? So if the destination branch is merged, then it will still stay on the source branch when main is pulled? Or what? Can you help me reframe it to describe what the user experiences?

Reviewer: Yes exactly, in any case (even though we would omit adding the not existing property) it would reconcile to include it when everything has been merged. I don't think we need to say anything more here, I just wanted to mention it in case it shed some more light on how this works in the background.

- Any **existing properties** that were added to the selected item and are **not on the event** on the destination branch

>     - When toggled off on events, any changes to the property will be excluded on the destination branch

Reviewer: ...but the property will remain on the event ?

    - When toggled off on events, any changes to the property will be excluded on the destination branch

<center><img
  src="/docs/images/pulling-pushing-items/toggle-related-property-changes.png"
  width="60%"
  alt="Toggle related property changes"
/></center>

## What can be pushed and pulled and from where?

Pushing (and soon pulling) is currently available for the following items:
- Events
- Properties
- Property bundles

Pushing is available for new and updated items from the following views:
- Tracking plan changes (button on each item that can be pushed)

## Pushing and pulling use cases

Pushing and pulling has several use cases. Some examples are below.

### Breaking down a large branch

It often happens when designing data, that a branch becomes quite big, containing a lot of event and property changes.
Then it's helpful to be able to break that branch into more manageable chunks, both to make review and implementation easier.

That is now possible by pushing items from the diff view to different branches. 

### One team is ready to implement but not others

> Commonly, Avo branches need to be implemented by more than one team. Most of the time teams are not able to implement in parallel, so it can be helpful to break the branches down for each team.

Reviewer: Maybe frame this slightly differently IDK
```suggestion
Commonly, Avo branches need to be implemented by more than one team. In many cases teams are not able to implement in parallel, so it can be helpful to break the branches down for each team.
```

Now this is possible for platform teams. If for example the iOS team is ready to implement first, then items with the iOS source can be pushed to another branch.
On the destination branch, other sources can be removed from events and/or [property presence per source](../avo-tracking-plan/properties#configuring-when-properties-are-required-or-optional) can be adjusted.
Then the iOS team can implement for only the iOS source, merge the branch and the changes will remain for the other sources on the original branch.

### Reusing properties between open branches

Sometimes implementation of the branch blocks it to be merged to main and then the items that have been created on the branch can not be used on other branches.

> Or sometimes to different people are designing data for separate features in parallel and end up creating duplicate events on separate branches. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or sometimes two different people are designing data for separate features in parallel and end up creating duplicate events on separate branches. 
```
